# Learner Log Entry #1 

## Prompts
Following the [Rose/Bud/Thorn](https://www.panoramaed.com/blog/rose-bud-thorn-activity-and-worksheet#:~:text=%22Rose%2C%20Bud%2C%20Thorn%22%20is%20a%20mindful%20design%2D,day%2C%20week%2C%20or%20month.) model:

### Rose: 
It was really great to learn about data management and get some tips on how to organize data for easy access, but also discuss how to keep data "clean" for easy reference and set clear standards for data organization, I think implementing a data management plan in our lab would be a great tool since there is a lot of collaboration involved in the projects from our lab and different people use some data we generate to have a holistic approach of a project, for example, we have a model that generates technical info on performance for Membrane distillation that was generated by previous PhD students, many of the current students in our lab use that model for different parts of a project with the goal of having a holistic approach for MD  performance, mitigation strategies, cost, and environmental impact analysis. Having a data management plan that we all can follow would increase collaboration efficiency and transferability to new students in our group who are integrating into existing projects, even if just using the  principle to create a reproducible framework.

### Bud: 
This week's sessions made me realize the lack of a plan I have for the data I generate further from using it for the purpose of my research, which also means someone from my team would probably have a hard time making sense of my data if needed. I am looking forward to learning more about data management planning as well as licensing for sharing the data we get from our models not just  but for collaboration with people working on similar projects.

### Thorn: 
I felt like this week's sessions were pretty clear on data management, so I don't think the content itself had a "thorn" for me. However, I struggle to organize my data as much of my work is very similar. I deal with iterations of my model that are almost the same, so sometimes I can get lost in finding the appropriate file I am looking for, which is something we discussed and more of a "personal" thorn in my research.

## Additional thought
Looking forward to applying some of the lessons shown in these sessions, particularly organizing my data in an effort to keep my raw data raw while having an organization system for iterations of my work that allows easy access
The "FAIR Data" part was something I did not know about and found very interesting.
